---
permalink: research/dpu/intro/
title: "Intro and Set-up"
sidebar:
    nav: "dpu" 
---

SmartNIC/DPU refers to a new generation of network adapters. DPU is a SoC, with its own processor, memory, network interface, etc., and serves as the network interface for host machine(s). With specialized and programmable modules(i.e. encryption engines, RegEX engines, etc.), DPUs can offload and accelerate packet processing, communication, security and related functionalities in data centers.         



# Setting Up BlueField-2 DPU

## Preparations

- Physically install the DPU onto the host PCIe bus.

- Download:
  - Host DOCA SDK. It can be downloaded from [Installation Guide :: NVIDIA DOCA SDK Documentation](https://docs.nvidia.com/doca/sdk/installation-guide/index.html)
  - DPU bootstream. It can be downloaded from the following sources:
    - [Installation Guide :: NVIDIA DOCA SDK Documentation](https://docs.nvidia.com/doca/sdk/installation-guide/index.html)
    - https://content.mellanox.com/BlueField/BFBs/Ubuntu20.04/DOCA_1.3.0_BSP_3.9.0_Ubuntu_20.04-6.signed.bfb. Replace version numbers with targeted versions.

## Host-side Configuration

[todo]

## DPU-side Configuration

- Generate a **password hash** by 

  ```bash
  openssl passwd -1
  ```

  This will generate a prompt for you to input the password and generate the password hash. This password is for the user `ubuntu` on targeted DPU.

- Create a `bf.cfg` file that contains the password hash generated last step. 

  ```bash
  ubuntu_PASSWORD='[PASSWD_HASH]'
  ```

  Replace the `[PASSWD_HASH]` with the password hash generated by `openssl`.

- Use the **bootstream file** to install OS onto the DPU. The command is

  ```bash
  bfb-install --rshim rshim0 --bfb [BDF_FILENAME.bfb] --config bf.cfg
  ```

  This will take a while. We can use `minicom` to connect to the DPU to view the installation process while installing.

  ```bash
  minicom -D /dev/rshim0/console
  ```

- After successful installation, the minicom connection will  prompt. We can also **ssh** into DPU with:

  ```bash
  ssh ubuntu@192.168.100.2
  ```

  Note that the ip_address for tmfifo_net0 is burnt as `192.168.100.2` on the DPU side. And in order to use tmfifo_net0 interface, an IP address should be assigned to the interface. A setting like this would work:

  - IP: 198.168.100.x
  - netmask: 255.255.255.0

## Additional Configuration

- Firmware update.

- Subfunction configuration[^2].

- Running examples. Examples are located in `/opt/mellanox/doca/application` in DPU. Take `url_filter ` as the example[^1].

  - Preparation 1: configure corresponding SF.

  - Preparation 2: configure hugepage for `url_filter`.

  - Run application

    ```bash
    /opt/mellanox/doca/applications/url_filter/bin/doca_url_filter -a 0000:03:00.0,class=regex -a auxiliary:mlx5_core.sf.4,sft_en=1 -a auxiliary:mlx5_core.sf.5,sft_en=1 -c3 -- -p
    ```

    

## Reference

[^1]: [URL Filter :: NVIDIA DOCA SDK Documentation](https://docs.nvidia.com/doca/sdk/url-filter/index.html)
[^2]: [Scalable Function (SFs) :: NVIDIA DOCA SDK Documentation](https://docs.nvidia.com/doca/sdk/scalable-functions/index.html)
